# A-smart-garbage-collection-system
Things that are connected to Internet and sometimes these devices can be controlled from the internet is commonly called as Internet of Things. The Internet of Things (IoT) is a concept in which surrounding objects are connected through wired and wireless networks without user intervention. In the field of IoT, the objects communicate and exchange information to provide advanced intelligent services for users. Owing to the recent advances in mobile devices equipped with various sensors andcommunicationmodules,togetherwithcommunicationnetworktechnologiessuch as Wi-Fi and LTE, the IoT has gained considerable academic interests. Owing to the characteristics and merits of IoT services, waste management has also become a significant issue in academia, industry, and government as major IoT application fields. An indiscriminate and illegal discharge of waste, an absence of waste disposal and management systems, and inefficient waste management policies have caused serious environmental problems and have incurred considerable costs for waste disposal.Inoursystem,the Smart dust bins are connected to the internet to get the real timeinformationofthesmartdustbins.Intherecentyears,therewasarapidgrowthin population which leads to more waste disposal.So a proper waste management system is necessary to avoid spreading some deadly diseases. Managing the smart bins by monitoring the status of it and accordingly taking the decision. This waste is further picked up by the municipal corporations to finally dump it in dumping areas and landfills. But due to lack of resources, ineffective groundwork, some waste is not collected which poses serious health hazard to the surrounding environment. Proper cleaning intervals may provide a solution to this problem. But keeping a track of the status of the bin manually is a very difficult job. There are multiple dustbins are located throughout the city or the Campus In our system, the Smart dust bins are connected to the internet to get the real time information of the smart dustbins. These dustbins are interfaced with raspberry pi based system with ultrasonic sensors. Where the ultrasonic sensor detects the level of the dust in dustbin and sends the signals to raspberrypithesamesignalareencodedandsend to theapplicationanditisreceived.
 
The data has been received, analyzed and processed in the database, which displays the status of the Garbage in the dustbin on the application of authorized person mobile. The concerned authority get alert about dustbin is full and informs person whoever is responsible for collecting garbage from the particular areas. The garbage trucks collect the garbage from the completely full dustbin and dispose it.
